Add Verifiable Cloud docs section (#639)
tkhq/docs: products/verifiable-cloud/overview.mdx

---
title: "Overview"
---

## What is TVC?

Turnkey Verifiable Cloud ("TVC") is a new offering to externalize the [Foundations](https://whitepaper.turnkey.com/foundations) of our TEE-based key management system.

> Turnkey started as a key management system with a drastic [threat model](https://whitepaper.turnkey.com/architecture#threat-model), and we placed a bet on TEEs early on. More specifically, Turnkey uses [AWS Nitro Enclaves](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/nitro/nitro-enclaves/) to deploy all sensitive workloads.

Reviewer: maybe we should mention other providers so customers don't think we're locked into AWS? Or is that too far away?

```suggestion
Turnkey started as a key management system with a drastic [threat model](https://whitepaper.turnkey.com/architecture#threat-model), and we placed a bet on TEEs early on. More specifically, Turnkey uses [AWS Nitro Enclaves](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/nitro/nitro-enclaves/) to deploy all sensitive workloads today, and we plan to support other major cloud providers in the future.
```

Author: great call! Added.

To build the foundations for our key management system we had to dig deep into build systems, deployment tooling, verification tooling, provisioning, performance, and scaling. This work, performed over the course of 3+ years, is valuable and highly general: anyone building within TEEs at scale will encounter similar issues.

> TVC is our attempt at solving these problems transparently for the industry at large, within and outside of crypto. A few of the hard problems solved by TVC:

Reviewer: nit: not sure what is preferable
```suggestion
TVC is our attempt at solving these problems transparently for the industry at large, within and outside of web3. A few of the hard problems solved by TVC:
```

Author: I think web3 is clearer indeed. Crypto can be cryptocurrency or cryptography!

* Reproducible builds are crucial to leverage remote attestations (see [this blog post](https://quorum.tkhq.xyz/posts/remote-attestations-useless-without-reproducible-builds/)). We have bootstrapped [StageX](https://stagex.tools), an open-source distro focused on reproducibility. Learn more about it [here](https://quorum.tkhq.xyz/posts/reproducible-builds-made-easy-introducing-stagex/). TVC works with StageX so that you do not have to think about reproducibility. It just works.
* Packaging applications into EIF files is [easy on the surface](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/enclaves/latest/user/building-eif.html) but leaves application developers with load-bearing security decisions: which base OS do I use? How do I handle application upgrades? How do I persist state? Turnkey built [QuorumOS](https://github.com/tkhq/qos) to solve these problems in the context of our own key management platform. TVC is integrated with QOS to handle these problems for you. In TVC you provide the binary application you'd like to run, and we take care of the rest.

> * Running enclaves in Kubernetes is hard. Turnkey has invested years of engineering time to get this right. We are running enclaves with autoscaling so ensure your application can transparently scale up and down with traffic. We have automated provisioning at boot and invented [key forwarding](https://github.com/tkhq/qos/blob/main/src/qos_core/KEY_FORWARDING.MD) to ensure enclaves going down do not wake up operators in the middle of the night. An enclave going down is automatically replaced and provisioned from already-running enclaves.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Running enclaves in Kubernetes is hard. Turnkey has invested years of engineering time to get this right. We are running enclaves with autoscaling to ensure your application can transparently scale up and down with traffic. We have automated provisioning at boot and invented [key forwarding](https://github.com/tkhq/qos/blob/main/src/qos_core/KEY_FORWARDING.MD) to ensure enclaves going down do not wake up operators in the middle of the night. An enclave going down is automatically replaced and provisioned from already-running enclaves.
```

Small typo here, **so** should be **to**.

Author: good catch!

> * Running enclaves in Kubernetes is hard. Turnkey has invested years of engineering time to get this right. We are running enclaves with autoscaling so ensure your application can transparently scale up and down with traffic. We have automated provisioning at boot and invented [key forwarding](https://github.com/tkhq/qos/blob/main/src/qos_core/KEY_FORWARDING.MD) to ensure enclaves going down do not wake up operators in the middle of the night. An enclave going down is automatically replaced and provisioned from already-running enclaves.

Reviewer 3: i'm relunctant to mention k8s in our docs overall; `Running production-ready enclaves is hard.` feels more accurate here

Author: good call. Kubernetes is an implementation detail

* Verification tooling and workflows are sensitive and hard to get right. Turnkey is regularly audited by top security firms to guarantee verification procedures and the code implementing them remains secure and correct over time.

> TVC applications get this (and more!) by default because they run on the same infrastructure as Turnkey's own secure workloads.

Reviewer 3: in convo yesterday we mentioned that scale and provisioning / end to end readiness are 2 of tvc's differentiators - would highlight that in the beginning or call it out in a followup change!

Author: Where do you think we should call this out? Would you replace this sentence? Insert something at the end of it?

Reviewer 3: Beginning of this section or end are both good, or in an eventual "tvc vs competitors" doc when that comes. Not blocking for this iteration

Reviewer 3: will reread and see if i can make a suggestion or PR

Author: Resolved!

## Use-cases

> Many different types of workloads can benefit from verifiability. Below is a list of use-cases we've discussed internally or externally already.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many different types of workloads can benefit from verifiability. Below is a list of use-cases we've discussed internally or externally with design partners.
```

Author: Rephrased 👍

| Transaction Construction  | Users know that the unsigned transaction bytes are legitimate. |
| Transaction Parsing       | Provide accurate metadata about the effects of a transaction. This is critical for trusted wallet UX. See [VisualSign Parser](https://github.com/anchorageoss/visualsign-parser/).  |
| Oracles                   | Leverage external data without the overhead of full decentralization, on-chain or off-chain. Replace economic incentives with verifiability. |
| Blockchain nodes          | Allow for private balance lookups, verifiable mempool inclusion, and more. |
| Sequencers                | Prove correct behavior and eliminate the need for challenge periods and economic incentives around them (e.g. [Base sequencer](https://github.com/base/base/tree/main/crates/proof/tee)) |
| Identity verification     | Prove no identity is leaked as part of the verification process. |
| VPN nodes                 | Guarantees privacy by proving that forwarded traffic isn't logged anywhere. |
| Exchanges                 | Ensure no malicious behavior (frontrunning), and create verifiable order books. |

> | PII processing            | Prove that processing does not leak or misuse PII (Personally Identifiable Information). |

Reviewer 4: It might be too early since we don't support GPUs, but training on private data and verifiable/private inference sesions

I also think we should touch on generally defense in depth with attested and tamper proof workloads. Don't just authenticate at the edge: add defense in depth by having services attest to each other. And even get quorum approvals before rolling out code

The other thing that I don't know how to express is bridge private web2 info on web3. In some sense this is an oracle, but its more of a corporate bridge/authorizer. e.g. visa/morpho

Reviewer 4: Just ideas. Not sure how much it helps. Something something LLM SEO optimization but I guess we will probably have dedicated web pages for that 🤷

Author: Good call! Will add these two use-cases.

> 

Reviewer: Credit to Conner Emma and his [Demo site](https://tkhq.github.io/solutions-internal/tvc-walkthrough/) for this phrasing.

```suggestion
These are just a subset of possible use cases. Any computation where two parties need to agree on what was executed can benefit from or require verifiability. 
```

Author: Added!

## Architecture

We’ve engineered TVC to fit within the existing Turnkey products and APIs. You will interact with TVC via our [dashboard](https://app.turnkey.com/), via the [TVC CLI](https://github.com/tkhq/rust-sdk/tree/main/tvc), or programmatically via [APIs](/api-reference/overview).

## Applications

> TVC is programmable infrastructure, enabling you to create and manage verifiable apps. Each TVC App is deployed on Turnkey infrastructure in the exact same was as Turnkey's own [core enclave apps](https://github.com/tkhq/core-enclaves).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
TVC is programmable infrastructure, enabling you to create and manage verifiable apps. Each TVC App is deployed on Turnkey infrastructure in the exact same way as Turnkey's own [core enclave apps](https://github.com/tkhq/core-enclaves).
```

> * TVC Applications are deployed within a Kubernetes cluster operated by Turnkey, using [QuorumOS](https://github.com/tkhq/qos) ("QOS") as a base OS.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* TVC Applications are deployed with a Kubernetes control plane operated by Turnkey, using [QuorumOS](https://github.com/tkhq/qos) ("QOS") as a base OS.
```
Either "kubernetes control plane" or "kubernetes clusters". We must manifest cluster per client! (Also will be a red flag to k8s ppl if we have a single cluster for all customers)

Reviewer 3: i'm slightly anti referencing k8s at all since it doesn't really add to the tvc product itself - as long as it's nitro i don't imagine users comparing how enclaves are brought and kept up

Reviewer 4: @annieke I agree with you. I figure the only reason to mention implementation details like k8s is if we really think it adds to the "these guys know what they are doing and we should trust them more then our selves" aesthetic

Author: manifesting 🥇

* Key provisioning, high-availability deployments (minimum of 3 replicas), and in-depth verification workflows are supported by default.

> * Because TVC relies on Turnkey for its own operations, it's possible to use Consensus in the context of TVC activities (with [Turnkey Policies](/concepts/policies) or [Root Quorum](/concepts/users/root-quorum))

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Because Turnkey has native support for TVC, it's possible to use Consensus in the context of TVC activities (with [Turnkey Policies](/concepts/policies) or [Root Quorum](/concepts/users/root-quorum))
```

Wonder if we should also touch on authenticating to turnkey with attestation bundles .. but maybe we should wait until that is built

Reviewer 4: I think there is a lot of nuance here I am glossing over, but prefer to frame it as Turnkey works very well with TVC, but not that TVC will be insecure if Turnkey has a problem (for those that manage their own quorum shares especially)

Author: yeah let's wait. I think it deserves its own callout once we have the policy engine primitives in place!

## Deployments

Each TVC application can be deployed many times. For every TVC deployment, you will specify:

* an OCI image URL (e.g. `ghcr.io/myorg/myrepo:tag@sha256:…`). This container is pulled by our Kubernetes infrastructure. If the container is private, TVC supports uploading encrypted [pull secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/).
* an executable path + args: within the container, you must indicate where the desired binary lives such that Turnkey’s infrastructure can extract this binary from its OCI container, and run it within a TEE on your behalf.
* the port on which external requests should be forwarded. This is typically port 3000. For convenience TVC lets you specify different ports for user requests and health requests made by Turnkey infrastructure.
* your expected executable digest: this is a security measure, to ensure the binary pulled by Turnkey's infrastructure is the binary you expect.

Once the deployment is submitted and approved, our infrastructure deploys and makes it available on a dedicated subdomain.

> | Resource    | Allocation   |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Resource    | Default Allocation   |
```

Reviewer 4: Manifesting configurable resources ☮️

Author: Smart!

| :-----------| :----------- |
| vCPUs       | 2 |
| RAM         | 1 GiB |
| Filesystem  | RAM-based (no persistence) |
| Replicas    | 3 |
| Ingress     | Load-balanced across all replicas |
| Sub-domain  | Automated (`<UUID>.turnkey.cloud`) |

## Manifests

Each TVC deployment is ultimately specified with a QOS manifest. The information you provide to TVC APIs (expected digest, executable arguments, and so on) is used to create a new QOS Manifest document. See [`Manifest`](https://github.com/tkhq/qos/blob/d69bcd348073ed7322c0d0423a35b7ab56831de8/src/qos_core/src/protocol/services/boot.rs#L414) for a full definition of the fields within it.

This manifest document is the source of truth used by QOS to boot your application. It is also the document which must be cryptographically signed for each deployment. QOS Manifests are returned along with the AWS attestation document, within [Boot Proofs](https://whitepaper.turnkey.com/foundations#boot-proofs-and-app-proofs). More on this in the next section.

> ## Keys, Signatures, and Verification

Reviewer 3: i'm often explaining operator vs quorum key to myself, would add operator here or as a follow up

Author: Do you mean as a separate section? (`## Operators`?)

* Quorum Key: a key which is injected at boot and is the same across all enclaves. This key can be used to encrypt state which needs to survive application upgrades. Internally at Turnkey we use this key to sign or encrypt long-lived data.

Both of these keys follow the [QOS Key Set](https://github.com/tkhq/qos/blob/main/src/qos_p256/SPEC.md) specification. Ephemeral Keys and Quorum Keys can be used to sign data, or to encrypt/decrypt data.

App Proofs are signed statements by enclave Ephemeral Keys; Boot Proofs are bundles composed of an AWS attestation document and a QOS manifest.

Together, App Proofs and Boot Proofs can be used to verify workloads end-to-end. See [our documentation](https://docs.turnkey.com/security/turnkey-verified#turnkey-verified) for more on this subject. We’ve already released tooling for proof verification in [Rust](https://crates.io/crates/turnkey_proofs), [JS](https://github.com/tkhq/sdk/blob/main/packages/crypto/src/proof.ts), and [Golang](https://github.com/tkhq/go-sdk/tree/main/pkg/proofs).

## Pricing

TVC pricing has two components:
* A fixed per-month platform fee.
* Variable pricing based on wall-clock enclave uptime

> Get in touch with us for more details.

Reviewer 4: Should we just say `Get in touch with us for more details.` in case we want to experiment pricing by use case?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Get in touch with us](https://www.turnkey.com/turnkey-verifiable-cloud#waitlist) for more details.
```

no scrolling for every point of a potential sale 🤪

## Getting access to TVC

TVC is current in Beta. We're working with few customers to build the platform and improve it as we go.

> If you're interested in being an early design partner, or if you want to be notified when TVC is generally available for all, please [join the waitlist](https://www.turnkey.com/turnkey-verifiable-cloud#waitlist).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
TVC is currently in private beta. A select group of design partners are already building on it and getting early access to alpha capabilities.

When we open the next cohort, we'll go to the waitlist first. [Grab your spot.](https://www.turnkey.com/turnkey-verifiable-cloud#waitlist).
```

My attempt at inducing a little fomo lol

Author: love it.

Reviewer: nit: mixing "beta" and "alpha" in the same paragraph reads a little weird. I suggest

> TVC is currently in private beta. A select group of design partners are already building on it and get exclusive access to the latest features and capabilities.
